In this lecture, we are going to quickly look at a set of plugins for debugging a WordPress site.
We never had to resort to these tools, however, you may find them useful during the development of
your plugin.
Throughout this course, we've explored various debugging techniques.
For example, we utilize the developer tools or we dumped the contents of a variable onto the page.
In addition, we've turned on debug mode from the configuration file.
In the resource section of this lecture, I provide a link to a page for debugging code in WordPress.
WordPress provides an extensive list of tips for debugging plugins and themes.
Let's explore some of the options available.
WordPress recommends two plugins called Query Monitor and Debug Bar.
I provide links to both plugins in the resource section of this lecture.
Both plugins will output information on the current request.
They will provide a list of hooks and queries used by the page.
This information can be helpful for understanding how a page was generated.
You do not need to install both plugins, they both produce the same results.
I prefer to use the query monitor plugin.
It outputs more information than the debug bar plug in.
Before installing this plugin, let's update our WordPress configuration in your editor.
Open the WP config dot PHP file.
It's been a while since we've opened this file.
This file contains the configuration settings for a WordPress site.
Previously we turned on debug mode to help us debug our site during development.
Let's add another setting below the WP debug constant called save queries.
The value for this constant will be true.
The same query setting will force WordPress to save the queries performed to the database.
By saving the queries we can inspect them.
Next, let's install and activate the query monitor plugin.
Open the add new plugin page in the admin dashboard.
Search for the query monitor plug in.
Install and activate this plug in.
At the top of the page, a new menu option will become available.
The plugin will allow us to inspect various pieces of information on the request.
For example, we can view a complete list of SQL queries executed by the page.
In addition to the query, we are given the function's name responsible for executing the query.
As you can imagine, this information is extremely valuable.
It can help us pinpoint where and when a query was executed.
Queries are not the only piece of information available.
We can view a list of hooks.
I mentioned this before, but multiple plugins can listen to the same hook.
With this information, we are given the name of the hook, priority and function.
If you're curious about the exact location of the function, you can click on the plus icon for this
info.
Overall, the query monitor plugin can be extremely helpful for inspecting various pieces of information.
The most important step for using this plugin is to enable debug mode.
Without this setting, this plugin may not produce reliable results.
In the next lecture.
Let's finish the section by bundling our plugins.